NotesSymptoms&Spreading.introduction.md (#312)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/02.introduction.md

#### Transmission
In general, respiratory viruses like coronavirus can have multiple routes of person-to-person transmission including droplet transmission (i.e. inhalation for cough, sneeze), aerosol transmission (i.e. virus suspended in air), and contact transmission (i.e. contact with oral, nasal, and eye mucous membranes).
Other modes of transmission such as through touching surfaces or objects and then touching mucous membranes can also be investigated.
While there does not appear to be experimental evidence to conclude which mode of transmission different coronaviruses use [@doi:10.1038/s41368-020-0075-9], it has been suggested that the coronavirus person-to-person transmission is droplet-based using simulations [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa032867] and trace studies [@doi:10.3390/ijerph15122757].

> Other aspects of transmission to investigate is the relationship of infectiousness or virus shedding to disease period or symptoms and also which types of transmission events are commonly responsible for cases (such as transmission between relatives, nosocomial transmissions, and other possible types of interactions). Some information about these aspects is available for the highly pathogenic coronaviruses SARS (or SARS-CoV-1) and MERS [@doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-385885-6.00009-2][@doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].

Reviewer: An initial formatting suggestions

```suggestion
Other aspects of transmission to investigate is the relationship of infectiousness or virus shedding to disease period or symptoms and also which types of transmission events are commonly responsible for cases (such as transmission between relatives, nosocomial transmissions, and other possible types of interactions).
Some information about these aspects is available for the highly pathogenic coronaviruses SARS (or SARS-CoV-1) and MERS [doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-385885-6.00009-2; doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].
```

> Other aspects of transmission to investigate is the relationship of infectiousness or virus shedding to disease period or symptoms and also which types of transmission events are commonly responsible for cases (such as transmission between relatives, nosocomial transmissions, and other possible types of interactions). Some information about these aspects is available for the highly pathogenic coronaviruses SARS (or SARS-CoV-1) and MERS [@doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-385885-6.00009-2][@doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other aspects of transmission to investigate are the relationship between infectiousness and virus shedding with disease period or symptoms and also the frequencies of various types of transmission events, such as transmission between relatives, nosocomial transmissions, and other possible types of interactions.
Some information about these characteristics of transmission are available for the highly pathogenic coronaviruses SARS (or SARS-CoV-1) and MERS [@doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-385885-6.00009-2][@doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].
```

Reviewer 3: The official terminology is SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, isn't it?

Author: I think that makes sense @matfax. Just looking at the abstract and intro of the Nature Reviews Microbiology 2016 review referenced, they used SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV when talking about the virus (and SARS and MERS when just talking about the disease).
This means we need to correct SARS to SARS-CoV (and leave the parentheses SARS-CoV-1 which I have also seen people use in recent papers, probably to distinguish from -2) and MERS to MERS-CoV in the excerpt above.

Author: @rando2 @matfax I'm not sure if the "frequency" correction explains the point clearly enough although it definitely reads better than what I initially tried. How about something like:
"... and also the proportions of cases that are attributable to various types of transmission events, such as ..."
& keep the other changes you made in the sentence
& add the terminology corrections "SARS-CoV (or SARS-CoV-1)" and "MERS-CoV"
I can try to fix this myself but I don't want to make a learner's mistake. @rando2 would you fix this one? (& then I can "commit suggestion" if needed)

Reviewer 2: @yemarshall done! And I don't think this is the first time we talk about SARS-CoV so we can just make sure to note at the beginning that it is sometimes designated as SARS-CoV-1 to distinguish it from SARS-CoV-2.

> For SARS-CoV-2 it is still being investigated whether, in addition to being spread by people who show symptoms, it can also possibly be spread by people who do not show symptoms [@url:https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/how-covid-spreads.html] such as people with symptomatic infections at the stage prior to symptoms or the still under investigation possibility of people with asymptomatic infections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For SARS-CoV-2 it is still being investigated whether, in addition to being spread by people who show symptoms,  the virus can be transmitted by people who do not show symptoms [@url:https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/how-covid-spreads.html], such as during the pre-symptomatic stage of infection or in people with asymptomatic infections (a presentation that is still under investigation).
```
I'm not sure how best to mention phrase the last bit!

Author: maybe for parenthetical clause in your suggestion either what you have since I understood it when I first read it or something like  "(a presentation which sometimes occurs in other infectious diseases but is still being investigated for SARS-CoV-2)" ? I know this way is wordier but if it can be done clearly then it should be ok. (Note I happened to run into a bit of specific articles so far on asymptomatic but I didn't look at it closely enough to tell how hypothetical it was or what type of evidence/data/models they were using; this is in addition to the general mentions I referenced above which just say it's still not known if it can be spread by people who don't show symptoms but they don't specify if they mean pre-symptomatic &/or asymptomatic {though I know they know those are two of the options}].)

Reviewer 2: That sounds good to me! Done!

#### Transmission
In general, respiratory viruses like coronavirus can have multiple routes of person-to-person transmission including droplet transmission (i.e. inhalation for cough, sneeze), aerosol transmission (i.e. virus suspended in air), and contact transmission (i.e. contact with oral, nasal, and eye mucous membranes).
Other modes of transmission, such as through touching surfaces or objects and then touching mucous membranes, can also be investigated.
While existing evidence is insufficient to conclude which mode of transmission different coronaviruses use [@doi:10.1038/s41368-020-0075-9], simulations [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa032867] and trace studies [@doi:10.3390/ijerph15122757] suggest that person-to-person transmission of coronaviruses is droplet based.

> Other aspects of transmission to investigate is the relationship of infectiousness or virus shedding to disease period or symptoms and also which types of transmission events are commonly responsible for cases (such as transmission between relatives, nosocomial transmissions, and other possible types of interactions).
> Some information about these aspects is available for the highly pathogenic coronaviruses SARS (or SARS-CoV-1) and MERS [doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-385885-6.00009-2; doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other aspects of transmission to investigate are the relationship between infectiousness and virus shedding with disease period or symptoms and also the proportions of cases that are attributable to various types of transmission events, such as transmission between relatives, nosocomial transmissions, and other possible types of interactions.
Some information about these characteristics of transmission are available for the highly pathogenic coronaviruses SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV [@doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-385885-6.00009-2; @doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81].
```
